In this video we're going to take a look at some of the other functions that are available to us inside
of that child process module.
So we made use of spawn but there are three others that you might want to be aware of.
And before I say another thing I want you to know that this video is 100 percent optional.
Some of the stuff that I can discuss in here is going to be really complicated and you really do not
need to know just about anything inside of here.
You really don't.
I'm only putting this video inside the course because you might be a really really curious about the
purpose of these four different functions.
At the end of the day I really do not expect to be using these for different functions on a regular
basis whatsoever.
So if you ever are in a scenario where you have to use one of these functions I expect that you're going
to take a look at some documentation and figure out which one is appropriate to you at that point in
time.
I'm only putting this video here once again just to give you a little bit complete information on what's
going on behind the scenes.
Finally wholly optional.
So if you don't want to know any of this stuff.
Pause right here.
Move on to the next video.
And if you get confused at any point in this video just pause and move on.
OK.
That's enough of a disclaimer.
So let's get to it OK.
So four different commands here four different functions.
We made use of spawn.
So why do we use spawn and not some of the other ones.
Well to understand that we first have to understand the differences between these four different functions.
At the end of the day they are all about running some code or some program that gets started up from
within our application.
OK.
So here's the big difference is that you need to be aware of the differences between these four different
functions largely comes down to whether or not the command that we provide to each is executed inside
of a shell.
And it also comes down to whether or not the output or the standard Io from the processes that are created
are passed back to our program in a stream or not as well so you might be wondering what's a shell and
what's the stream.
Like I said some complicated stuff.
So let's dig in and figure out what's going on.
So what is a shell.
Exactly.
Well let me give you a very practical example.
I'm gonna go back over to my terminal whenever I run my terminal.
There is actually another program executed inside of my terminal automatically and somewhat invisibly
that you don't even really realize you are interacting with.
In other words whenever someone says or even I have inside of this course.
Hey let's open up our terminal when we open up our terminal.
We're really opening up to different things at the same time.
The first thing we're opening up is well the terminal that is the program that displays some text to
us allows us to type something in and allows us to have pretty formatted stuff allows us to have maybe
multiple tabs and so on the other program that is being created here is something called the shell which
is what actually takes the commands and text we type in interprets it and uses it to execute some number
of programs on our computer.
So the shell is really the brains of your terminal.
It is what actually takes the text you type in and passes it and executes it in some intelligent fashion
a really good example of this is if I tried to run a kind of complex command right here you don't have
to understand the command I'm about to run.
I just want to give you a quick example.
I'm going to run a cat index dot J.S. and then I'm going to pipe the output of that over to WC dash
l.
If you're on a Windows machine this command is probably not going to work for you.
So what this does is it gets all the text inside of my index not J.S. file it takes all of that and
then pipes it or essentially throws it into another program called WC WC dash L is going to come out.
Count out and print the number of lines inside of whatever input I feed into it.
So in total this command right here is going to print out the number of lines of code inside of index
dot J.S..
So if I run that I get out thirty two.
Now what is interesting here is not the fact I get 32.
What is interesting is the fact that I was able to string together some number of different programs
in this fashion.
So Cat by itself in WC by itself.
These are two separate individual programs and they don't inherently know how to work with each other.
So what's really going on here is we are executing our shell program.
We are providing it.
This series of commands right here my shell is then going to interpret that I'm trying to run a program
called cat and I'm trying to feed it an argument of index J.S. to my shell is going to execute that
command and then take all the output that we get back from that single command right there it's then
going to interpret based on this little pipe symbol right here that I want to take all that input and
awesomely output and provide it as input to WC.
And so it's then going to execute WC and throw all the output from cat into it so there's no like magic
mysterious force out there that is doing all this stuff for me it is the shell.
The shell is what is taking stuff from Cat and throwing it into WC if we didn't have access to the shell
we would never be able to run complex commands like this.
Instead we would be limited to just doing very simple one off commands one single command at a time
so I would have to do that index at J.S. and then I would have to take all this stuff right here.
Copy it and somehow throw it into the WC commands.
It's a life without your shell would be well kind of miserable.
So what does this all have to do with Shell with all these different options over here.
I have shell here and I'm saying yes or no I'm saying whether or not the first arguments or the command
we pass to each of these functions is executed inside of a shell let's clarify what that means.
Now that we know what a shell is it means that when I call the exact function and I pass in a first
argument to it of the command or the thing that I want to run a shell is created by No G.S. to take
that first argument and execute that string to give you a good example of this.
Let's take a look at the documentation once again specifically for the exact function so I'll find exact
right here.
I'll click on it and just like spawn you'll notice that it takes a first argument of a command so in
this case the command.
We'll take a look at the example down here.
The command is going to be a long possibly a long string that has a bunch of different little sub commands
inside of it.
So we could do echo and print out a home variable.
We could have the same kind of program I just ran where I do a cat and then pipe it into a word count
whatever string we pass right here is going to be executed inside of a shell like this.
And so we have the benefit of a shell to interpret the possibly complex command that we pass in so that's
what's going on with shell so to really summarize and put this into a way more kind of straightforward
term or straightforward means.
I would say that if I ever had to execute some really complex series of commands I would use exact because
I could use the shell syntax or I have the benefit of running my command inside of a shell so I can
execute this really complex series of commands and just rely upon the shell to do all the fancy work
for me because exact file spawn and fork do not run a command inside of a shell.
They are limited to us just running one singular program at a time with some set number of arguments
and we can never use those to refer to say an environment variable or use the pipe syntax or do anything
that we are used to doing at our terminal OK.
So that can explains shell.
Now the next one we're going to discuss is stream stream is kind of I don't know it is easy to understand
and hard to understand hard to understand because well this like yes or no for each of these options
is kind of meaningless.
Why do I say that.
Well let me just give you.
Well let's first discuss what stream is and then I'll tell you why these different options on here have
no one yes or at the end of the day like entirely pointless.
So the stream right here is essentially referring to how information from standard Io of that child
process gets sent back to our primary process.
So here's what's essentially going on we have our parent process for you and me.
That is our watch it.
Application at some point time we could use it ZEC or exact file which don't have this stream support
to create a new child process.
If we use exact or exact file this is what is going to happen.
Our parent process is going to create a new process that is like a new program to be executed that new
program might have some number of console logs being emitted.
It might also have some errors that are being thrown at the end of the day.
This new process is going to have some amount of output that is trying to send out to the world when
we create this new process with exact or exact file all of that output that the new process emits is
going to be collected automatically by no J.S. when that process then is completed.
So it exits or gets killed or whatever.
All this output is gonna be wrapped up in a nice little package and sent back to our parent process
for processing and we can see that very easily if we take a look at the documentation so here's the
documentation.
Take a look at exact and exact file.
The last argument about them is a callback function.
So let's take a look at exactly this callback right here is going to be invoked after that child process
terminates and the arguments to that callback function are going to be everything that that child process
logged out.
So everything from standard out in everything from standard error so in other words with exact an exact
file.
We're really trying to run like one program it's gonna do its own little thing.
Hopefully it's going to be kind of a short running process.
And then when it's all done it's gonna give us this nice little bundled up output that says hey here's
all the output of that child process emitted so that's what I mean.
Back over here when I say that there is no stream there's no kind of streaming of information from that
child process.
Back to our primary process so how is that different from spawn and fork.
Well I bet you can guess so with spawn and fork we're gonna create that new process whenever that new
process has a console log or an error or whatever else that information is going to be immediately sent
back over to our parent process and the parent can choose optionally to handle that output or just say
I don't care about at all.
Just go do your own thing then at some point time that process is going to complete.
When that happens we don't get any bundle of information because we already received it as each console
log actually occurred.
Originally though that is what is going on with this stream column over here.
Now let me tell you about why this stuff like the stream stuff and the shell stuff are all kind of pointless
and this is what is kind of frustrating about the child process library in general.
At the end of the day all that really matters is these spawn commands.
Exact exact file and to a lesser degree Falk are essentially just reusing the spawn function and providing
some different options to it.
Why do I say that.
Well it turns out that this spawn thing right here can be used to essentially if we just pass upon some
different options it will behave exactly as exact file does or if we pass different options it will
behave exactly as exact does or if we pass different options it will behave exactly like Hawk does.
So let me show you why that is.
I can go once again back over the docs to find spawn so your spawn right here Remember I told you spawn
doesn't run your command in a shell.
That was kinda something that was specially reserved to exact but if you look at the documentation really
quickly or very carefully I should say this bond function you'll see that the options object has an
option of shell.
So if we pass in shell of true then to our command is now going to be executed inside of a shell which
is what exactly is supposed to be for.
So in other words we can use spawn to essentially emulate what the other three functions do really easily
by just passing in the correct options so we can call spawn with Shell if true and all the sudden we
get that kind of nice shell behavior.
The opposite is kind of true as well.
So if Zack emits all of its output with a stream say what the exact virus without a stream.
Same with exact file if we go and take a look at the documentation on exactly inside of here we can
find maybe its exact file in this case so I'm thinking of Yeah exact filing and go down to exact file.
Here it is right here.
So exact file as well you'll see that I said OK the exact file back over here doesn't make you see the
shell.
Yeah.
Turns out we can call exact file with that same option.
So here is the exact file documentation we can pass in an option of Shell true and we get access to
the shell as well.
In addition if we take a look a little bit down here I might have to do a search on this page.
I was going to do a search
Rigo OK so this right here less going to show you I know at this point I'm kind of ranting a little
bit so we're almost done.
Like I said this video is optional.
So whenever we call the four different functions.
Exact exact file spawn or fork.
We get back an object called a process.
So this is a object that essentially represents the process that we are executing.
So this is some documentation right here about the different properties that this little process object
has.
And if I go back up to the top of this section that might be the most clear thing I could do here we
go.
So child process this is a thing that we get back whenever we create a process.
So either what spawn exact exact file or for so this child process exposes the standard out and the
standard in and the standard error streams.
So in other words this idea right here that exact and exact file we can't make use of the String output.
Totally not true not true at all.
When we call exact or exact file we get back a child process object and we can use that object to intercept
all the information that is being logged out by the process created by exact or exact file.
So in other words we can handle the objects or the processes that come out of these two functions as
though they were returning or creating a stream as well.
So at the end of the day I like I said I'm kind of ranting a little bit here at the end of the day the
entire point is all these functions are really frustrating and at the end of the day all you really
need to know is these spawn function.
That's the only thing that really matters because the spawn function we can pass a different set of
options to every time and get it to behave as though it were these other functions.
So you don't really need to know about the other ones you really just have to know about spawn unless
you have some very particular use case.
The one exception to this they're going to mentioned right here at the very end is the work function.
The fourth function is used specifically to create a process out of a javascript file.
So when we call it process dot fork we're going to pass in it not a command.
Instead we're going to pass in a path to a javascript file to run using Node.
The recent forecast different is that it really is just for running a no J.S. process.
The only big difference here is that when we create a new process using fork our main process the parent
can communicate with a child using something called IPC or inter process communication.
It is pretty darn rare that you're ever going to want to call fork outside of one pretty darn particular
scenario.
And that is specifically around a web server and that's something that's all that to advance for this
course.
So we're not going to be talking about it too much okay.
So at this point I think I've gone way off the rails on these four different functions.
I apologize for the little bit of the rant there towards the end but like I said at the end of the day
all you really need to know is the bond function understand it.
Take a look at the options and understand that you can use one to essentially do the same thing that
the three other do as well.
So quick pause right here.
Well let's continue on the next video and start to finish up our application.